---
eip: 0002
title: Bitcoin SPV support in the sidechain
author: Eduard Topchyan <e.topchyan@pixelplex.io> 
status: Done
created: 2019-12-12
---

## Summary

Simple Payment Verification allows to check the existence of the
transaction mined in the block without downloading and processing the
whole BTC blockchain. Introducing the SPV scheme into the Echo
blockchain allows for the users which are not a part of the committee to
be able to track the transactions in the Bitcoin chain that are related
to Echo BTC sidechain and verify that the corresponding
deposits/withdrawals of eBTC in the Echo blockchain are performed
correctly.

For this purpose Echo chain should store BTC block headers starting from
the point when the Echo blockchain will start to operate and the Merkle
paths of the transactions that are related to Echo sidechain.

## Tracked transactions

The list of transactions that are saved into Echo SPV objects include the following

* transfer from the deposit to intermediate address. 
    * These transactions can be validated to make sure that the eBTC issued to account are backed by the BTC in the Bitcoin network.
    * Transaction id of deposit to intermediate address is stored in the `btc_deposit_object`
* aggregating transaction.
    * SPV will allow to check the withdrawals of eBTC and corresponding transfer of BTC in the Bitcoin network.
    * Aggregation transaction id is stored in the `btc_aggregating_object`.
* unauthorized transfer from SMA address. 
    * This transaction will require signatures of 2/3+1 members of committee. Echo BTC sidechain will stuck forever if such transaction will be sent to BTC network because the next aggregation transaction use the previous aggregation transaction id and vout number of SMA which is already spent, and aggregating transaction will fail.

## Validation

SPV can be performed either automated or manually. 
* Automated verification
    * In the SPV operations evaluators - there is a problem with syncronization with the sidechain operations. There is no guarantee which one will get into the block first. This could be solved by joining sidechain and SPV operations. 
    * Check SPV during maintenance
    * In both cases what should be performed in case of SPV failure?
* Manual verification can be done via Echo wallet or DB API.
    * Check of the the existence of SPV object and transaction details for the deposit.
    * Check of the aggregating transaction outputs, make sure that all widthrawals exists in the Echo DB so there is no withdrawal to unknown address. From the other side it will check that all withdrawals performed by the Echo account owners are actually releasing BTC on the Bitcoin network.
    * In the case of SPV failure wallet or DB API will return error to the caller.


## Implementation

SPV support in the Echo blockchain should be implemented as a plugin,
which user can enable to keep track of the BTC sidechain related
transaction.

Plugin should create index in the database for the SPV objects. 

SPV object should contain the block header data and hash and the Merkle
paths for all transactions to the intermediate and from SMA addresses
and the actual transactions bytecode. SPV objects should contain only
block header if there are no transactions to the sidechain tracked BTC
addresses.

```json

get_object 1.24.95
[{
    "id": "1.24.95",
    "header": {
      "version": 805306369,
      "timestamp": 1577378533,
      "bits": 545259519,
      "nonce": 0,
      "prev_hash": "108181ff56bd79edc554e93c03bdcb822d279702690442556fc94ad10cac2841",
      "merkle_root": "198877d6d9fd65ebd123e56d9ef5a6f466af43c77fe74a15eb4aff66d7c58f6e"
    },
    "block_hash": "1bb811f54dd9cbbb756228da5513395156df344357a1ebdc93dc8af1442932e5",
    "entities": [[
        "c4738aa4ea4ef21510f66c365a01831601f09d4c7721305c1dead92b75b4e39b",{
          "tx_hex": "020000000108a4f56e4f5a496d2c6906ee3055bcf52f80d1519cb737f828029e6ce0f14162000000004847304402200ea98d3b8b1c7e032cbdd5127c6d04eb54be1753b26431ba5712c492559bf9df0220719ff5b4394092e7088088264595c2fe98f2f4bd059efd89039522a9d7ab5d4601ffffffff01fc6d062a0100000017a914e69f14ea2cf510f04db70f943633aa46499990c88700000000",
          "path": {
            "leafs": [{
                "left": "5dd2115adcd83705ab63d7ec0b8db822cdfc2b50c5b721c6a50579accf62c57b",
                "right": "c4738aa4ea4ef21510f66c365a01831601f09d4c7721305c1dead92b75b4e39b"
              },{
                "left": "ef89f8055623344cacbb04394740ad7fba0a7c088cbe5a60c832c35f875d71ed",
                "right": "9b0fd4d924a5c564fa86dd5ed253ddba365a7b09fe6157d409f4b6ff2eb7b4ff"
              },{
                "left": "e83fcd43b4b196b0b4e5afa1da9914fdff8ffb849a9805f8fd8461761ef27d1c",
                "right": "7618a70a5a903c25ab06a97f8896e677301d52ea6933d8623cda7ad947f4d481"
              },{
                "left": "c380d7fe1228e11ca85faa3dbff16b656a1de660db33b9477fdd02f36bb1e876",
                "right": "044edff3d577aae13c61dec97bdc86c62553401f7087e80bd8767d494c2eef13"
              },{
                "left": "0de526aa5d857cf8acb0864129f1ef03292103c8f123f0b306a9e187dad5b363",
                "right": "460c12e5358e29dee632aa820b5dfcad9ff110ec81a5ccfd361d6d27972e04bc"
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      ]
    ],
    "is_approved": true,
    "approves": [],
    "extensions": []
  }
]
```

This will allow any user of the Echo blockchain to calculate the hash of
the transaction, verify the Merkle branch and Merkle root in the block
header. Also user can iterate through the block headers and validate
overall chain.

These objects should be accessible through the separate API-s for Echo
DB and Echo wallet.

In order to create SPV objects each of the committee members creates SPV
operation which contains details enough for creating the SPV object.
Operation evaluator checks for the existence of the corresponding index
in the Echo database and add the object if the index exists. Otherwise
it does nothing.

Approvals should be collected in the object similar to the most
sidechain objects.
