---
eip: 0001
title: ERC-1 ecrecover
author: Viktor Pulyak <viktor.pulyak@pixelplex.io>
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
status: Draft
created: 2019-11-28
---

## Simple Summary

Modification of the `ecrecover` method to restore an Echo account from
an ECDSA signature.

## Motivation

Minimize the changes necessary when transferring contracts from Ethereum
to Echo.

## Description of the problem

The solidity `ecrecover` method cannot be used in Echo EVM in the
version that is assumed by default.

There are three main reasons for this:

##### 1. EdDSA Instead Of ECDSA

Echo uses a different type of signature (EdDSA instead of ECDSA) which
does not support recovering a public key from a signature. Accordingly,
the mechanism cannot work by default, since `EcRecovery` returns the
address who signed the message, and it is impossible to get it from the
Echo signature

##### 2. Special Address Format

Addresses in Echo EVM is converted account ID. An account with id
`1.2.100` will have the address
`0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000064` which cannot be obtained
from the signature. For this reason, even if the ECDSA signature was
still supported, we would get problems comparing the sender address and
the address obtained from the signature. Accordingly, comparison and
validation (for which the `ecrecover` method is most often used) would
not work.

##### 3. Authority Mechanism

Since Echo supports an advanced mechanism for setting access rights to
an account, the private keys of the account can change

## Description of the proposal

The idea is to map the real address of the account and the ECDSA address
corresponding to the account private key. When calling the contract
method, which accepts the signature for subsequent verification, use the
ECDSA signature. Inside the contract, restore the address from the
signature and use the mapping to get the final address of the account.

## Specification

### General flow

1. User generates a new pair of private and public key ECDSA and the
   address corresponding to them
2. User sends the received address to the blockchain, thereby linking
   the address and an account on the Echo network
3. User sig data with ECDSA private key and sent to the contract
4. When using the `ecrecover` method by the contract, Echo determines
   the address obtained from the signature, finds the address and
   account match, and returns the address of the Echo account instead of
   the original address.

### Implementation Details

#### Private Key Generation

User can use absolutely any ECDSA private key. However, to avoid the
need to store additional private keys, it is proposed to use the
existing EdDSA account private keys. Keep in mind that multiple accounts
can use the same set of permissions.

To unify generation and achieve uniqueness for each account, it is
proposed to use the following option for generating a private key:

```bash
ECDSAPrivKey = EdDSASig(sha3("1.2.000"), EdDSAPrivKey)
```

where 1.2.000 is an account id.

In the case when the account has several private keys in permissions,
the generation will look like this:

```bash
ECDSAPrivKey_1 = EdDSASig(sha3("1.2.000"), EdDSAPrivKey_1)
ECDSAPrivKey_2 = EdDSASig(ECDSAPrivKey_1, EdDSAPrivKey_2)
...
ECDSAPrivKey = EdDSASig(ECDSAPrivKey_n-1, EdDSAPrivKey_n)
```

#### Private Key Saving

Account address must be unique. Therefore, when saving a new address to
the blockchain, it is necessary to check the uniqueness of the address.

Since permissions settings can change, the situation is real when the
user will need the ability to save a new address for his account. At the
same time, the signature can already be sent in the contracts using the
previous private key, which also should not lose its weight. Therefore,
the preservation of new addresses should not lead to the loss of old
ones, and uniqueness should be preserved with respect to all addresses
that have ever been downloaded.
